# Afnan Profile/resume Website
#### Video Demo:   https://youtu.be/C6cz1jTiWJw
#### Description:   A website that organizes my resume/profile using HTML, CSS, Flask,Javascript divided into four sections: About, Skills, Projects, and Contact Me.
The About page is the main aesthetic page where I introduce myself. On the Skills page, I presented my skills as a progress bar and a list of my certifications.
The Projects page I listed my project on cards with photos and provided a link to the source code. Finally, in the Contact Me page, where I provided my information to contact and  link to my accounts in different apps, I provided a form to contact directly with my email. I implemented this using Flask, which I will explain later.
 
The project folder contains a template folder, a static folder, an app.py file, and a requirement.txt file:
 
1. The template folder contains all the HTML code:
 
 
* layout.html:  in the head tag, I used the link tag to link the bootstrap component , Font Awesome for icons, and my CSS file. in the body section I defined a header tag with some attributes that I can use for javascript implementation and css, in the header section I add button to drop the navigation bar if the device screen small (in css media queries), otherwise in case laptop  the navigation bar will show without button, the next part of the body section I used Jinja block to add the About page with two sections at the top the background picture with button and at the bottom about me text, after the end of the Jinja block I defined a  footer tag and script tag where I define two const for the header and for the button icon then I used addEventListener if the button clicked then the header list will be active.
* skills.html: extends the layout file using Jinja, ,then in the section tag I defined a div tag for the progress bars; each progress bar has h5 and div tag and is styled in the css file for my skills. I also defined another div tag for the unordered list of certifications using bootstrap classes.
* apps.html:  extends the layout file using Jinja ,in a section tag inside it unordered list of img and h5 tags inside div tag which each represents a card of project name and photo with specified size .
* contact.html: extends the layout file using Jinja, and another Jinja block if a message flashed from the app.py file will show at the top of the contact page. The contact section has a form with a post method that contains two input tags, text and email, as well as a textarea tag and a submit button that calls msg() on click. Each has name attributes so it can deal with the app.py file, contact section also contains an unordered list of links and a tag inside it i tag for icons and a span tag for text. At the bottom of the page, there is a div tag for icons list with a link for each and styles with colors. In script tag I defined a function msg() that will be called if submit button clicked ,the function takes three variable for the inputs in the form and checks if not filled will show alert and return, otherwise will submit the form.
 
 
2. requirement.txt: contains Flask and Flask-Mail to be installed for app.py file.
3. app.py: import what it needs in this file os,  Mail and Message from flask_mail,  Flask, flash, render_template, request from flask. At first, I configure the Flask application  and then I ensure that templates are auto-reloaded and assigned to true . Then I configured the app Mail with secret key, mail password and OS environment variable assigned to it , mail username which is my email, 587 assigned to mail port, smtp.gmail.com assigned to mail server, and I used mail use TLS to be true. Next, I created the Mail app and assigned it to mail. When the route is “/“ which is the main page (About) and the default method for the route is GET , I defined function that render the template layout.html, the same process for  route “/skills” will render skills.html and route “/apps” will render apps.html . If the route “/contact” it has two methods POST and GET , I defined a function contact() in case the method GET it will render contact.html directly , in case it POST then will take three values from the form and check if empty then flash a message “failed” and render contact.html , else will define a message variable assigned to it a Message function that takes four arguments: sender and recipients, both assigned to it my email to send and receive , the third argument is html combined with the msg and email variable and the last argument is the subject that I defined earlier, which contains the name of the sender. Then I send the message through the (mail), and flash a message “sent” and render the contact.html template.
4. The static folder contains the style.css file : where I provided all the style for the website and made it responsive for different devices using media queries.
 

